which is worse, to stumble others or to be stumbled.
From Jehovah's viewpoint, both are serious matters that can affect our lives and also the lives of others.
But today we're going to focus on the matter of being stumbled because our texturges us do not be quick to take offense.
James chapter 3 verse 2 warns us,
we all stumble many times.
We don't want to misunderstand these words to say it's okay to be stumbled.
It's not providing an excuse.
Rather, James simply stated a reality of our imperfect lives.
What the important thing then is what do we do when we run into a potential stumbling block?
Proverbs chapter 24 verse 16 tells us,
the righteous one may fall even seven times and he will certainly get up.
Let's consider what might cause us to stumble and how we can avoid being stumbled.
Some causes of stumbling are injustices on the part of our fellow believers.
It could be persecution or tribulation or it may be the imperfections of others.
Any one of these obstacles could cause us to trip to stumble or even to fall down.
How can we prevent these stumbling blocks from turning into roadblocks that stop our forward movement in Jehovah's service?
Please open your Bibles to Psalm 119.
We'll read verse 165.
This scripture provides a simple answer to that question and it also assures us that we can avoid being stumbled.
Psalm 119 verse 165.
Abundant peace belongs to those who love your law.
Nothing can make them stumble.
Why not?
Because if we love Jehovah's law, Jehovah will not allow us to be stumbled.
Our deep love for him and for his law will prevent that from happening.
Some of the most common stumbling blocks result from the imperfections of others.
I'd like to reflect on two experiences that illustrate how we can avoid letting such problems become a permanent stumbling block.
The first experience is Sister Goldie Ramotion.
She was born in Romania in 1903.
She was baptized in 1918.
In 1921 she emigrated to the United States in that same year.
She married a Romanian brother from her hometown.
They settled in Akron, Ohio and had four daughters.
In the mid 1930s, Goldie and her husband were stumbled.
Listen to Goldie as she explains why they were stumbled and what helped them to regain their balance.
She related.
I became angry with brother Rutherford.
A new witness felt that brother Rutherford had dealt unjustly with him, not hearing him out.
I felt that brother Rutherford was wrong.
Well, one Sunday my sister Mary and her husband Dan came to visit us.
After dinner Dan said, let's get ready to go to meeting.
We don't go to meetings anymore.
I said, we're mad at brother Rutherford.
Dan asked, did you know brother Rutherford when you got baptized?
Of course not, I replied. You know I got baptized in Romania.
Well, why did you get baptized, he asked?
Because I learned that Jehovah is the true God.
And I wanted to dedicate my life to serve him, I answered.
Never forget that, Dan replied.
What if brother Rutherford left the truth?
Would you leave too?
Never, never, I said.
And that brought me to my senses.
And I said, everybody, get ready for meeting.
And we haven't stopped since.
Jehovah continued to bless Goldie and her family.
For example, her daughter Beth graduated from the 14th class of Gilead.
The moving account of Goldie's life story can be found in the April 1st, 1997.
Issue of the Watch Tower.
By all means, go back and read it.
You will not only be encouraged, but you'll also learn how she got the name Goldie.
Is there a lesson here for us?
Yes. Goldie and her family avoided permanent stumbling by staying focused on the big picture.
That is, Jehovah's sovereignty and their personal relationship with him.
Now let's consider a second experience.
When I read the text for today, I immediately thought of brother Adolf Weber.
I first read his experience 38 years ago in the 1980 year book.
Obviously, his experience made a lasting impression on my mind and heart.
Adolf Weber was a Swiss woodcutter. His job was cutting down trees.
In the mid-1890s, he traveled to the United States.
He worked as a part-time gardener for Brother Russell, and that's how he came to learn the deep truths of God's word.
Brother Weber was fluent in English, German, and French.
He volunteered to return to Europe to cultivate the French-speaking field and Brother Russell agreed.
Brother Weber went to his hometown in Switzerland, and there he placed ads in French religious newspapers
and found an excellent response to those ads.
Then in 1903, Brother Russell visited Europe and arranged with Brother Weber to publish an eight-page French edition of the Watch Tower.
And like a zealous regular pioneer, in the summer, Brother Weber worked as a woodcutter and a gardener in Switzerland,
and then he would travel to France and to Belgium to follow up on interested ones who had responded to his newspaper ads.
He traveled extensively and gave general oversight to the work in this French-speaking field in Europe for over 12 years.
Then in 1912, Brother Russell visited Europe again, and he appointed a new brother who was better educated than Brother Weber to be in charge of the work.
Do you see a potential stumbling block?
Absolutely.
But Brother Weber didn't even flinch.
He humbly stepped down and was happy to do whatever he could to advance Kingdom interest.
Interestingly, that better educated brother who replaced Brother Weber eventually left the truth, and so did four others who succeeded him.
But through all of this, Brother Weber humbly kept on doing what he had done for years, spreading seeds of truth to honest-hearted ones in the field.
Is there a lesson here for us? Certainly.
Please open your Bibles to Matthew chapter 23, and we'll read verse 12.
This scripture identifies an outstanding quality of Brother Weber, and notice the results of showing this quality, Matthew chapter 23 verse 12.
Whoever exalts himself will be humbled, and whoever humbles himself will be exalted.
How true this proved to be in Brother Weber's case. Brother Weber was never looking for recognition, and yet his experience appears in the Proclaimers book in the 1980-year book, the 1984-year book, and the 1987-year book, because of all that good work he did in Europe.
The 1987-year book gave this meaningful summary of Brother Weber's life.
It said those some had allowed feelings of self-importance to overreach them.
Brother Weber continued to serve Jehovah loyally and humbly. His modesty, strong faith and zealous service, left a deep impression on all who knew him.
Finally, at the age of 85, he finished his earthly course in February 1948.
What a fitting tribute to this humble servant of Jehovah who was not quick to take offense.
So may we be like Brother Weber and Sister Romotion. Let's maintain a humble modest view of ourselves and stay focused on building a close relationship with Jehovah.
If we do this, we will not be quick to take offense, and nothing will make us stumble.